= MYSQL2PSQL - MySQL to PostgreSQL Migration Tool

Tool for converting mysql database to postgresql.
It can create postgresql dump from mysql database or directly load data from mysql to
postgresql (at about 100 000 records per minute).

It can translate now most data types and indexes, but if you experience some problems, feel free
to contact me, I'll help you.

== Installation
Mysql2psql is packaged as a gem. Install as usual (use sudo if required).

  $ gem install mysql2psql

After installation, the "mysql2psql" command will be available.
When run, it will generate a default configuration file in the current directory if a config
file is not already found. The default configuration filename is mysql2psql.yml.

  $ mysql2psql

You can use an alternate config file by passing the filename/path as a parameter:

  $ mysql2psql ../another/world.yml

== Running Migrations
See the configuration file for documentation about settings. Key choices include:
* whether to dump to a file, or migrate direct to PostgreSQL
* migrate only the schema definition, only the data, or both schema and data


After editing the configuration file and launching tool, you will see something like..

  Creating table friendships...
  Created table friendships
  Loading friendships...
  620000 of 638779 rows loaded. [ETA: 2010/01/21 21:32 (00h:00m:01s)]
  638779 rows loaded in 1min 3s
  Indexing table friendships...
  Indexed table friendships
  Table creation 0 min, loading 1 min, indexing 0 min, total 1 min


== Database driver dependencies
Mysql2psql uses the 'mysql' and 'pg' gems for database connectivity.
Mysql2psql gem installation should automatically install these too.

If you encounter any issues with db connectivity, verify that the 'mysql' and 'pg' gems are installed and working correctly first.
The 'mysql' gem in particular may need a hint on where to find the mysql headers and libraries:

  $ [sudo] gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local/mysql

NB: With Ruby 1.8.x, the gem install will usually complain about "No definition for ..." errors. These are non-fatal and just affect the documentation install. This doesn't happen with Ruby 1.9.2.
  
== Contributing to Mysql2psql

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so no-one unintentionally breaks it in a future version.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so the gem maintainers can cherry-pick around it.
* Send a pull request
  
== Getting the source
Mysql2psql was first produced by Max Lapshin <max@maxidoors.ru> who maintains the master
repository at https://github.com/maxlapshin/mysql2postgres

The gem bundling and refactoring for testing was done by Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com> and
the repository is at https://github.com/tardate/mysql2postgres

Gem packaging is done with Jeweler. Note that on windows this means you must run under mingw or other shell that supports git to do the gem bundling (but you can gem install the built gem in the normal Windows shell).

== Setting up for development

The project includes a Gemfile so with bundler you can install gem dependencies with:

  gem install bundler # if not already installed
  bundle install

Note comments 'Database driver dependencies' regarding issues that you may encounter with the mysql gem.
  
== Running tests
If you fork/clone the project, you will want to run the test suite (and add to it if you are developing new features or fixing bugs).

A suite of tests are provided and are run using rake (rake -T for more info)
  rake test:units
  rake test:integration
  rake test

Rake without parameters (or "rake test") will run both the unit and integration tests.

Unit tests are small standalone tests of the mysql2psql codebase that have no external dependencies (like a database)

Integration tests require suitable mysql and postgres databases to be setup in advance.
Running the integration tests *will* rewrite data and schema for the "mysql2psql_test" databases in mysql and postgres. Don't use this database for anything else!

Setting up mysql on localhost:3306
- create a database called "mysql2psql_test"
- setup a user "mysql2psql" with no password

e.g.

  mysqladmin -uroot -p create mysql2psql_test
  mysql -uroot -p -e "grant all on mysql2psql_test.* to 'mysql2psql'@'localhost';"
  # verify connection:
  mysql -umysql2psql -e "select database(),'yes' as connected" mysql2psql_test


Setting up PostgreSQL on localhost:5432
- create a database called "mysql2psql_test"
- setup a role (user) "mysql2psql" with no password

e.g.

  psql postgres -c "create role mysql2psql with login"
  psql postgres -c "create database mysql2psql_test with owner mysql2psql encoding='UTF8'"
  # verify connection:
  psql mysql2psql_test -U mysql2psql -c "\c"


== Notes, Limitations, Outstanding Issues..

* index migration doesn't handle cases where the index name is the same as a table name (this is ok on MYSQL by not PostgreSQL). Workaround: manual migration required.
* more test coverage, as always...


== Contributors
Project founded by Max Lapshin <max@maxidoors.ru>

Contributors (roughly git log order):
- Anton Ageev <anton@ageev.name>
- Samuel Tribehou <cracoucax@gmail.com>
- Marco Nenciarini <marco.nenciarini@devise.it>
- James Nobis <jnobis@jnobis.controldocs.com>
- quel <github@quelrod.net>
- Holger Amann <keeney@fehu.org>
- Maxim Dobriakov <closer.main@gmail.com>
- Michael Kimsal <mgkimsal@gmail.com>
- Jacob Coby <jcoby@portallabs.com>
- Neszt Tibor <neszt@tvnetwork.hu>
- Miroslav Kratochvil <exa.exa@gmail.com>
- {Paul Gallagher}[https://github.com/tardate] <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>
- {James Coleman}[https://github.com/jcoleman] <jtc331@gmail.com>
- {Aaron Peckham}[https://github.com/apeckham]
- {James Tippett}[https://github.com/jtippett]
- {Tim Morgan}[https://github.com/seven1m]
- {dakhota}[https://github.com/dakhota]
